SHITE(1)		    General Commands Manual		      SHITE(1)

NAME
     shite - posix shell, static webpages generator

SYNOPSIS
     shite [-p] SRCDIR DESTDIR

DESCRIPTION
     shite is a script to generate a static web page, optionally with blog
     and/or multiple pages, by reading a bunch of markdown files and a simple
     config file.  Made to facilitate blogging, writing and publication of
     online content, since markdown format is almost pure text, it can prevent
     the author from contact with ugly html pages.  It is a very static
     program, offering little easy customization of the final product, to
     generate anything way different, one will need to edit style.css file.

OPTIONS
     -p	     Create a blogpost. It will ask for a title, get the date and open
	     your editor on the new post file. With this option you only need
	     to specify the SRCDIR, if there isn't a $BLOGDIR, shite will
	     create one, shite will create it.

ENVIRONMENT
     MARKDOWN enviroment variable is used to generate html pages.  EDITOR will
     be used on the -p option, to write the post

FILES
     SRCDIR - where the site source is, specified by command flag

     SRCDIR/foo.md - markdown files of the main dir. You can write "infinite"
     ones, each will be linked to the navigation bar. These files have no
     specific syntax, just pure markdown.

     SRCDIR/foo.link - link files. each .link file will be a simple link in
     the navigation bar, poiting to the site you write in the first line of
     it.

     SRCDIR/shiterc - the basic site configuration, where you set the title,
     subtitle, and footer text, write these things in markdown, as done in the
     example.

     SRCDIR/favicon.ico - the icon of your site, shite will copy it to
     DESTDIR.

     SRCDIR/blog/ - the blog folder, create it if you want one. If you don't
     create it, blog will not be generated nor linked to the navbar.

     SRCDIR/blog/n-post-name.md - your blogposts, these files needs to follow
     a specific format, created by -p flag. n means a number, this number will
     say in each time order the posts were created. The first line of the file
     must be the name of the post in a <h1> mardown format, like '# Some
     title', followed by the date of the post in the next line. To avoid
     errors, invoke -p flag.

EXAMPLES
     You can start your site on top of the example site. Copy it to anywhere
     (or keep it in place), edit shiterc, remove the blogposts or just edit
     them. After that run shite to build it, you can point directly to a
     server dir, for example:

     shite share/mysite /var/www/htdocs/...
     To simplify everything you can add add an alias like 'alias buildsite='shite foo bar''
     or create a script and add it to crontab to automatically build and upload to the server.

SEE ALSO
     smu(1)

AUTHORS
     Henrique N. Lengler <henriqueleng@openmailbox.org>

SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
     This software runs a lot of commands and can cause damage to the system,
     since it is a new piece and probably there still some bugs to be found:
     So please use with caution.

OpenBSD 5.9			     2016			   OpenBSD 5.9
## MANPAGE /n/n
